## Dr. Simpkin:

You will find my (almost complete) decryption of X’s numbers below. I did not
enjoy tackling this assignment. What began as a lark became an unnerving
experience. At first, I fixated on two irritating thoughts: (l) that X had
double-spaced his story just to waste paper; (2) that he had written it just to
waste typewriter ribbon. As I decrypted the first few sentences, I could not
help but feel that X, from some distant place, was peering over my shoulder and
laughing at me. (Such laughter was depressingly common during his stay with us.)

My mood of irritation changed as I began to realize the discipline X had brought
to his endeavors. The sheer persistence required to translate so many words into
numbers impressed me. If the story was this difficult to decode--I began, for
example, to experience blinding headaches--then how much more difficult had it
been to encrypt in the first place? Had his escape involved the daily removal of
a single fragment of brick from the wall of his cell, I don’t believe X could
have demonstrated greater patience.

As I continued to work, fatigue transformed my banal task into grim
revelation. The shadows grew long; the light left the window of my cramped
office. X’s phantom laughter faded and the only sound was the dry scritch of my
pen against paper. A belief at odds with the rationality of my profession
colonized me: that I was creating the events uncovered with each excavated
word. This sensation, so unexpected, made me shiver and suck in my breath. It
brought my efforts to a shuddering halt. I literally felt that I was bringing
into existence an entire future for Ambergris--a future so horrible I would not
conjure it up for all the typewriter ribbons in the world. I threw down my pen;
then picked it up and bent it until it broke, as if to guard against any
possibility of continuing. That said, I could not bring myself to try to decrypt
the final paragraph. I felt the ramifications would be too earth-shattering.

When I summoned the nerve to review my decryption effort (which I call “The Man
Who Had No Eyes”), I discovered I had “mistranslated” at least seven words. I
got up to retrieve X’s book from the filing cabinet where I had quarantined it,
intending to correct my errors, but immediately sat down again, terror
paralyzing me. I could not move or speak for several minutes, frozen from the
belief that the book itself had changed and was now writing me. During this
negative epiphany, the shadows seemed to undulate like wings. The air was close
and thick. When I emerged from my trance state, I knew that the results of
correcting those seven words would be unthinkable. (Such an episode, had it
originated with one of my patients, would have been the stuff of five or six
therapy sessions.)

As I type this note, I realize it is nonsense to believe words on a page can
affect reality. It is just a story. It is just X’s final goodbye. However, I
cannot bring myself to send the book to you along with the other items. Yes, I
do need it for my collection, but there are more important reasons to keep it
here.

You should visit us. You could stay a few days, assist us in those areas where
we lack personnel, maybe bring us some supplies. I do not think the text that
next you read will much resemble what you may remember, but this place is the
same, if in worse disrepair.

I wonder if there is already a name for my affliction.

**Dr. V**

### P.S.

Some of the words I have translated seem to make no sense--in my haste I
have made errors--but the last paragraph has escaped my efforts completely, for
reasons I will touch on later.
